file : harwell-ee-1951.txt.psf

page 1 :
Question :
	The frequent comparison with desk calculators. Why is the 
	WITCH compared to desk calculators? What are they anyway?
	What is the link between the WITCH and these?

		ANSWER : The WITCH and its working was mainly modelled around 
		Desk calculators available at that time. The running times for
		operations on the WITCH are , hence comparable to these. The 
		motivation behind the WITCH was to make a desk calculator 
		programmable and reliable - in the sense that it should be 
		able to run continuously for hours without needing attention.


page 1 :
"Because a relatively low operating speed is accepted, it becomes
practical to read orders and other data from the perforated tape as
they are needed in the calculations (this is done in the B.T.L.
machine). Design is thus simplified and much less storage capacity is
needed. The low operating speed also makes possible the use of
relays for routing and sequence control. Since each relay may carry
many contacts this leads to simplicity in setting up connexions. The
fact that the techniques are well established and of proved reliability
is of great importance."

Questions :
	Why would a relatively small operating speed be accepted ? If it can
	be made faster, shouldn't it be?

		ANSWER : The speed limit here is due to the time taken by the 
		tape readers to interpret the data and orders. Further, 
		reliability and accuracy was of far more importance than speed.

"The use of relays for number storage is not
attractive, as many relays would be needed."

Questions :
	The sole reason for this decision is the numbers you can represent 
	per digit in a dekatron based system is larger ? 

		ANSWER: Simple answer, since they were trying to replicate 
		a mechanical calculator based on decimal systems, they intended
		to use decimal and not binary. Furthermore, dekatrons were 
		reliable for this purpose and you could represent far more 
		numbers with far less digits on them.

Page 2 :
"No provision is made for reading of tables
of functions and the low operating speeds
will often make it impracticable to calculate
the required functions ab initio."

Question :
	What are these tables of functions they talk about ? Like Log tables ?

		ANSWER: Yes, log tables, sine /cosine value tables etc -
		lookup tables in general.

Question in general : 
	The tapes where from the data and orders are read, as I imagine it its a long
	piece of paper with instructions printed line by line. Are they connected end 
	to end ? Forming a continuous loop ? (If yes this actually puts a limit on
	the length of the tape doesn't it ?)

		ANSWER:Only the tapes you want to be looped are joined
		end to end, for instance if there was a 'function' being 
		frequently called, you would define it on a separate
		tape and have it joined end to end forming a loop. You
		would use a master driving tape (like a main function)
		to execute this looped function by shifting control to the
		tape after finding the correct block marking character 
		so that you are positioned at the beginning.
		Remember that even though the initial designers of the 
		WITCH intended to allow searching in either direction,
		the backward searching for block marking characters 
		were never actually implemented.

	The add subtract options allow the tape readers to be the input and the
	perforators to be the output. Again it also says that the sending and
	receiving address cannot be among the same set of stores. Does this mean
	that we cannot send have both of them in the same instruction ?

		ANSWER : Yep, you cannot send anything from the tape
		readers directly to the stores. Neither can you send
		values among the same set of tapes. For example, you 
		cannot send anything from store 10 to store 11.

	The multiplication and division instructions do not allow any input organ to be
	the addresses in the instruction? What makes the multiplication and division 
	different in this way apart from the fact that an accumulator is used to store 
	intermediate results ? (Wait let me recheck the circuits if that explains everything)

		ANSWER : This was obvious, I cant believe I missed it.
		The multiplication and division happen in multiple 
		stages, the stores getting updated in each stage. Hence
		you cannot have an input organ here.

	[Don] What happens to the result of an accum operation? Is it automatically
	transferred to the result store? Can we specify the accum as one of the
	source or destination among arithmetic operations? If yes trace back how the
	number might have reached the accum.

Page 3:
"The same translator is used when reading numerical information into 
the computor to convert digits stored on relays into trains of pulses.
It is connected to the transfer units in exactly the same way as a
store but only handles one digit at a time."

 Question :
 	What relays are they talking about here? What relays store the digit? 
 		ANSWER : {Didn't get this right. Will explore later. }
			

Question in general:
	Say during addition, the pulse sent to the receiving tube causes the discharge
	to reach the output cathode or the zero cathode causing a pulse to be created.
	How is this pulse treated? How is this differentiated from the one created while
	reading from a store?
		ANSWER : {not yet}.

	When an operation is performed and the sending store is to be cleared, is the following 
	sequence of events correct?
	1) Pulse generator sends a sequence of ten pulses to the sending tube
	2) the output cathode generates a pulse corresponding to the digit stored in it
	3) the translator unit recieves this pulse and regenerates the number of pulses representing 
	the digit and also its complement on 10, though in the complemented form the first pulse 
	is ineffective in moving the discharge on the recieveing tube.
	4) the required number of pulses is sent to the receiving tube as per the operation and 
	SIMULTANIOUSLY the complemented version of the pulse is sent to the sending store, therby
	clearing it.
		ANSWER : Yes, mostly.
	
	How does the carry over circuit work exactly? When a discharge reaches zero again after
	going around one round, a carry should be generated. And this is simillar to the 
	process of reading a digit, I assume this will be done by the sending tube? Now is this
	carry propagated to the adjascent dekatron as a pulse or is it done in some other way? What I'm
	asking is about the circuitry.
		ANSWER : {Held off for now.}

	Further lets say that two stores have the same digits in them say 8, and the digit 5 is being sent
	to them. Both these store being adjesant. Now simultaniously, on recieving the 2nd pulse, both 
	the stores will generate a carry over. Now for the significanter bit among the two, the 3rd pulse
	form the sending tube as well as the carry from the lesser significant bit will arrive almost at 
	the same time? How are such collisions handled ?
		ANSWER : Carry operations are done only after all the 
		basic math is finished. So no probability of collisions
		there. The carry circuits are like another set of 
		transfer circuits.
	
Page 5 :
"This carry circuit plays no part in handling positive numbers, but is
necessary to handle complements."
	
Questions:
	Huh? What about additions involving carry over? I'm I looking at someting else entirely here?
	ANSWER : This hear refers to the carry out from the MSB and 
	not the entire circuit.
	[Don] Finding a number from its complement and finding the complement from the number.
	Explain to yourself how this is done. Page 5 for reference.
	
Questions in general:
	For each dekatron, there are two guides requiring the pulses to be fed to. I always thought in
	an abstracted sense involving only one pulse train. Now it seems the two train details have there
	on importance. How does the actual pulsing work? Are the two guides provided with the same set of pulses
	synchronously ? How does it affect the dekatron if different sets of pulses or asynchronous pulses are
	send? Is the presence of the two guides related to the fact that there are two intermediate positions
	while shifting the charges from one state to the next? If so is it correct to assume the two pulse set
	are off by a slight amount, enough for the first intermediate state to stabilize but not enough
	so that its allowed to fall back to the initial state ? And further, it would mean that both the
	guides be given the same copy of the pulse, with this slight offset.
	
	These questions are based on my idea of how the dekatrons work, please correct me if I'm off.
	
		ANSWER : Yes, there are two different guides which are
		fed the pulses. The pulses are sufficiently spaced, so as to allows stabilisation on the current state but not too
		long as to allow fall back to the previous state.
		So logically if one guide is fed a stream of 5 consecutive
		pulses and the other is fed three, then only the three paired pulses will be effective in moving them.
		The source of the pulses need not be the same as long as 
		the timing is, on the WICHthe pulses are often generated 
		from multiple sources.
